Criterion title	Criterion description	Rating title A	Rating description A	Rating score A	Rating title B	Rating description B	Rating score B	Rating title C	Rating description C	Rating score C	Rating title D	Rating description D	Rating score D	Rating title E	Rating description E	Rating score E	Rating title F	Rating description F	Rating score F	Rating title G	Rating description G	Rating score G	Rating title H	Rating description H	Rating score H	Rating title I	Rating description I	Rating score I
Level of Clarity	"Level of clarity and coherence of the focus and scope of the chosen topic, research question/s or objective/s

(To what extent has the project scope or area of inquiry been clearly articulated and justified?)"	Exceptional (90-100)	"The project scope and objectives are well argued, coherently and critically discussed throughout. A gap in current knowledge and understanding has been identified. The work undoubtedly exceeds expectations and prescribed learning outcomes. The work is highly original."	5	Outstanding (80-89)	"The project scope and objectives are well argued, clear and appropriate. A gap in current knowledge and understanding is likely to have been identified. Expected outcomes are expressly articulated and appropriate."	5	Excellent (70-79)	"The project scope and objectives are clear and appropriate. Expected outcomes are very clear, are articulated and generally achievable with the time and resource available."	4	Good (60-69)	The project scope is clear but derivation of the objectives may not always be obvious. Expected outcomes are clear enough.	4	Clear (50-59)	"Project scope is outlined, but may not be sufficiently justified. Objectives are stated than derived. Expected outcomes may be unclear."	3	Satisfactory (40-49)	The problem of study has been identified with limited scope and with unclear or too many derived objectives that need elaboration.	3	Needs Improvement (30-39)	Does not demonstrate understanding of the issues. Project focus and scope is absent or poorly expressed; objectives lacking or badly formulated.	2	Needs Revision (20-29)	"No project focus or scope, research objective(s) unclear, confused or missing.
0.0 Pts
Needs reworking (1-19)
Inadequate or no evidence of project scope and "	1	Needs reworking (1-19)	Inadequate or no evidence of project scope and objectives.	0
Level of Achievement	"Level of achievement of project objectives or research questions

(To what extent has the project achieve what it sets out to do?)"	Exceptional (90-100)	Every research question or objective has been irrefutably addressed or achieved with critical discussion throughout.	5	Outstanding (80-89)	Every research question or objective has been irrefutably addressed or achieved with critical discussion throughout.	5	Excellent (70-79)	Every research question or objective has been irrefutably addressed or achieved.	4	Good (60-69)	Research questions or project objectives have mostly been achieved.	4	Clear (50-59)	Research questions or project objectives have been generally achieved.	3	Satisfactory (40-49)	Research questions or project objectives only partially met.	3	Needs Improvement (30-39)	Some indication of limited achievement of project objectives or research questions.	2	Needs Revision (20-29)	"Almost no achievement of project objectives or research questions, if any."	1	Needs reworking (0-19)	Inadequate or no evidence of project scope and objectives.	0
Level of Critical Evaluation	"Level of critical evaluation of relevant literature, concepts, themes and theories relevant to the chosen topic (and data gathered for field-based projects)

(To what extent has the project synthesise ideas/data from a referenced review of relevant scholarly sources and by using appropriate and defensible methods and approaches?)"	Exceptional (90-100)	Shows an exceptionally well developed capacity for independent thought demonstrated by exhaustive critical analysis of the literature in the area of application and also demonstrating outstandingly skilful synthesis of disparate sources.	5	Outstanding (80-89)	Shows an outstandingly well developed capacity for independent thought demonstrated by exhaustive critical analysis of the literature in the area of application and also demonstrating outstandingly skilful synthesis of disparate sources.	5	Excellent (70-79)	"Shows very highly developed ability to analyse, synthesise and apply knowledge and concepts demonstrated by a comprehensive critical analysis of the literature in the area of application and also demonstrating skilful synthesis of disparate sources."	4	Good (60-69)	"A good attempt at analysis, synthesis and application of a wide range of knowledge and concepts. There is appreciation of the main issues and the ability to make critical points and substantiate them.
"	4	Clear (50-59)	"An attempt at analysis, synthesis and application of knowledge and concepts has been made. There is tendency towards to rely on easily obtained background source materials and wide use of poorly authenticated material. This material may not show full integration with the research."	3	Satisfactory (40-49)	There is a tendency towards uncritical description of the literature. Literature is poorly analysed and/or unrelated to the tasks carried out.	3	Needs Improvement (30-39)	Background work stated but not properly analysed and not applied to the research task. The information or data used may have limited relevance. Showing major gaps in knowledge of the subject matter and many areas of misunderstanding and confusion.	2	Needs Revision (20-29)	"Almost no achievement of project objectives or research questions, if any."	1	Needs reworking (0-19)	Inadequate or no evidence of project scope and objectives.	0
Discussion of findings	"with critical reflection, analysis and insight"	Exceptional (90-100)	"Discussion of all concepts used, even very complex ones, are easy to follow and understand and any supporting arguments are easy to follow and understand. Recommendations for further work (where applicable) are practical, detailed and convincing. With clear indication that consideration has been given to additional resources required to undertake the work."	5	Outstanding (80-89)	"Discussion of all concepts used, even very complex ones, are easy to follow and understand and any supporting arguments are easy to follow and understand. Recommendations for further work (where applicable) are practical, detailed and convincing. With clear indication that consideration has been given to additional resources required to undertake the work."	5	Excellent (70-79)	"Discussion of all concepts used is easy to follow and any supporting arguments are easy to follow. The work is very well argued; all the main issues are explored and evaluated and the reasons for the conclusions are clearly indicated. Recommendations for further work (where applicable) are practical and convincing, with some indication that resource requirements have been considered."	4	Good (60-69)	"Discussion of most concepts used is easy to follow and any supporting arguments are easy to follow. There is good comment on the evidence and materials used in the task with possibly some minor errors that would not have a serious effect on the outcomes which are related to the originally established objectives. Recommendations and conclusions (where applicable) are practical and convincing, with some indication that resource requirements have been considered."	4	Clear (50-59)	"Discussion of some concepts used is easy to follow, and any supporting arguments are generally easy to follow. There is sensible comment on the evidence and materials used in the task and the general outcomes are sound and where confusion or gaps exist, they would not substantially affect the outcomes. Recommendations and conclusions (where applicable) are practical and could be acted on."	3	Satisfactory (40-49)	"Discussion of some concepts used is not easy to follow and some supporting arguments are not easy to follow. There is little discussion of the work, or its applications and concepts and theory are weakly understood or there is only a poor attempt to utilise them. Conclusions drawn from the work are very limited and show no added value from the work carried out. Recommendations for further work (where applicable) are generally correct but are not sufficiently focussed or detailed to be useful."	3	Needs Improvement (30-39)	"Discussion of concepts used is difficult to follow and supporting arguments are difficult to follow. There is a lack of critical reasoning and often the project objectives, (where articulated), have been ignored or badly misunderstood. What objectives/research questions there are have been ignored or badly misunderstood. Recommendations for further work (where appropriate) are unsubstantiated."	2	Needs Revision (20-29)	"Discussion of findings used is very difficult to follow and supporting arguments are very difficult to follow. Lack of integration between area of study and previous work, discussion and conclusions. Contains some significant errors or omissions. Recommendations for further work (where applicable) are irrelevant."	1	Needs reworking (1-19)	No attempt at analysis and no application of thought or knowledge. Discussion of concepts used is missing and supporting arguments are missing. No recommendations for further work.	0
This criterion is linked to a learning outcomeOrganisation and presentation of dissertation		Exceptional (90-100)	Written in publishable form and standards. Well-structured with outstanding use of headings and sub-sections that clearly show the development of a logical argument. All points can be appreciated in one reading. Extremely well produced showing exceptional written communication skills with faultless grammar and spelling.	5	Outstanding (80-89)	Well-structured with outstanding use of headings and sub-sections that clearly show the development of a logical argument. All points can be appreciated in one reading. Extremely well produced showing outstanding written communication skills with faultless grammar and spelling.	5	Excellent (70-79)	"Well-structured with excellent use of headings and sub-sections that show the development of a logical argument. Most points can be appreciated in one reading. Well produced, showing a high level of written communication skills with few grammatical and spelling errors."	4	Good (60-69)	"The work is easy to read and understand and is well thought through. Overall structure and the length are appropriate. Main points can be appreciated in one reading. Effective presentation of chapters/sections, showing generally good written communication skills with good spelling and grammar."	4	Clear (50-59)	A satisfactory overall structure that may lack balance in certain areas or fails to integrate fully all of the material. Possible inclusion of irrelevant information. It is easy to appreciate the main points in one reading. Some points may required rereading. It is acceptably written with adequate spelling and grammar although may contain some minor errors.	3	Satisfactory (40-49)	"Lacking in logical structure, making it difficult to read. Ideas are poorly expressed, often with mistakes. Inclusion of some irrelevant information. It is hard to appreciate the main points in one reading. Many points may require rereading. There may be a few significant errors in grammar and/or spelling."	3	Needs Improvement (30-39)	"Limited or muddled presentation and structuring of arguments. Inclusion of irrelevant information. The document is difficult to read and understand. The level of expression is inadequate, often being unclear or confused. There may be significant errors in grammar and/or spelling."	2	Needs Revision (20-29)	A poorly structured document that lacks balance and fails to integrate all of the material. Inclusion of much irrelevant information. The document is very difficult to read and understand. Poorly written. There may be many significant errors in grammar and/or spelling.	1	Needs reworking (1-19)	Unstructured document and arguments. The level of expression and the grammar and/or spelling prevents understanding.	0
Citations and referencing		Exceptional (90-100)	All sources are properly cited and the reference list is complete. Include a wide range of appropriate and high quality references and citations in their work from a variety of reference types.	5	Outstanding (80-89)	All sources are properly cited and the reference list is complete. Include a wide range of appropriate and high quality references and citations in their work from a variety of reference types.	5	Excellent (70-79)	All sources are properly cited and the reference list is complete. Include a wide range of references with varying quality.	4	Good (60-69)	Sources used are correctly cited and listed. Include an adequate range of references with varying quality.	4	Clear (50-59)	Sources used are generally correctly cited and listed. Include a limited range of references with varying quality.	3	Satisfactory (40-49)	"Sources used are poorly cited and listed. Include a very limited range of references, some with unreliable quality."	3	Needs Improvement (30-39)	Inconsistent and/or incomplete recording of sources cited or listed.	2	Needs Revision (20-29)	Limited numbers of sources or inappropriate and irrelevant sources used or listed.	1	Needs reworking (1-19)	Very few or no sources used or listed.	0
